all these amazing experiences and
security and benefits
but there was something in me that felt
empty
[Music]
marissa orr thank you for joining me and
20 minute leaders how are you
thank you for having me i'm doing well
today thanks looking forward to our chat
i'm extremely excited for our chat
because i i love the episodes where i
get to just hear people's journey
and hear about the the different twists
and turns they took
to their non-linear career pathways yet
it somehow ends up with
a very optimistic note of passion and
curiosity which i think
is going to happen here as well so
marissa tell me a little bit about you
or both experience as a
business executive in top companies but
also now as a business owner
yeah so i started working at google back
in 2003
and that was before the company had gone
public i was working in new york city
i graduated college or grad school not
too early not too
long before then and actually got the
google
interview through this old yahoo jobs
board called hot jobs
which people your age wouldn't know
about but anybody my age
remembers it very well there was about
50 people in the new york office at
google at the time now there's maybe
not ten thousand so it's a very
different place i really got to grow up
there in my career because i worked
there for 13 years all through my early
mid late 20s and 30s
and then after 13 years i left for a
role at facebook and i was there for
about a year and a half
and it was not the experience that i had
imagined
uh when i joined and i go into detail
about it and lean out
um my book but essentially
it was a pretty bad experience and
everybody in my life was telling me to
go back to google you know i had a great
career there or find another company in
tech
but that experience really put me in a
very deep dark place where i
started asking myself these big life
questions like
who am i and what do i want and i knew
there was
a something in me that was never going
to manifest in the corporate world
you know my potential was limited as a
very creative
person now while i was at google i had
started this women's leadership series
that was
a bit irreverent and counter to the
conventional wisdom
and it started to grow in popularity uh
i started doing lectures at not only
google but other companies in new york
city and other colleges
in new york city and at facebook
i really came to terms with the fact
that i wanted to devote my life
to that sort of thing speaking full-time
and writing a book turning my lecture
series into a book so i started doing
that while i was at facebook
and here i am now
i i don't want to paint the picture
because the context here is it's not
just that you were
you know a successful executive for over
a decade at
the top companies in the in the tech
scene in the world but
when you decide to make that transition
you're also a mother of three a single
mother or three
this is not just like you know a random
decision that as a 24 year old that can
say
yeah of course a lot of people want to
leave the corporate world and start
their own companies
this is a this is a little bit more
complicated than than the average
24 year old mindset right absolutely
it's a great
point and call out to make because it
really defines the essence of my journey
which is
here i am i live in a nice neighborhood
in new jersey i'm financially
independent i have three kids to take
care of
rent to pay and i'm not a financial risk
taker
so the idea that i would leave this
world where i made this lucrative salary
at these great companies and had a great
career
and just bet it all on this pipe dream
what it seemed like a pipe dream because
i'd never written anything before
i mean i had written but like no i had
no name i had no social following i
wasn't a recognized person
the the i've never published anything
the idea that i can get a book deal
write a book and then become a speaker
and follow my passions which is really
absurd
um from the outside in and even i have
to tell you
um in my own family and i'm very close
with my parents and they're wonderful
and supportive but they're
you know my mom is the daughter of
eastern european immigrants
who really came here and you know pulled
themselves up from their boots
it's a very business oriented family
like
the idea that i would do this was so um
absurd and we didn't talk about the book
for about a year in my family like
it didn't it was like it didn't exist
yeah wow i
yeah i knew how crazy it seemed and
talking about it with them upset me
because i really
needed you know the support and i know
it upset them so we just didn't talk
about it and then i remember like one
year thanksgiving
we're all drinking and then during
during dessert my brother-in-law was
like
so how's the book going and it was like
the music
stopped and everyone's like oh you know
and so
i say that because i think it's really
important to anyone
yeah that is doing this is going on this
journey
i mean you hear it to the point where
it's cliche but it's it's
cliche because it's true which is nobody
very very few people understand what
you're doing and support it because only
you have the full
picture of what's going on only you know
what you're truly capable of
so that was um really difficult for me
was to depart from the standard story of
how my life was supposed to unfold the
the storyline that was approved by my
parents that i went along with without
thinking about
and then the money piece was probably
even bigger than that so
i made a great salary and i had a
certain amount of savings and i
and when i decided to do this i knew i
was going to be fired from facebook i i
had this
and i go into detail about it in the
book um
i got into this situation where i was uh
it was it was just a bad situation so
knowing i was gonna be fired eventually
that's when everyone was
telling me like jump ship go back to
google and that's when i made the
decision
you know what i'm gonna ride this out as
long as i can so i can
get the salary while i work on the book
proposal
so one really important piece of this so
the summer of 2017 i started writing the
book proposal
in june of 2017 and the very first thing
i did was i sat down and i googled how
to write a book no joke that's
really like really yeah that was my
first step i did all the research okay i
have to write a proposal i bought a book
on how to write a book proposal
and i i would wake up and keep in mind i
was still working on facebook so i'd
wake up
i thought when am i going to do this you
know three days
i have an hour and a half commute each
way so i start waking up at 4 30 in the
morning
and i worked on the book proposal for
about an hour and a half
and then i would get the kids up and i
would get to work and they would go to
school
and any free time that i had what i was
like possessed
um with this idea i
i didn't tell very many people about it
which is very different than how i'd
handle creative ideas in the past i get
all excited i tell everyone and then you
know
i decided this was going to be different
in order to take myself seriously and to
to really um do this i
couldn't tell people about it um
i needed to prove to myself that i was
taking myself seriously
so i did end up getting fired again i
write all about it in the book
in september of 2017. i was about 95
done with the book proposal i think that
was key because
i probably would have gone back to
google or a different company if he
didn't have the momentum for the book
right exactly no just for the context
for for listeners when you say book
proposal is this like
an initial version draft of the book or
is this
a an abstract for the book yeah so
it's a it's what you have to write in
order to get a book deal
and some a lot of people and especially
i think this is a point you know to just
pause on for your you know people that
are younger you know don't have the
context um a lot of people self-publish
today
but that's where being a single mom
comes in i knew that nobody makes money
on books
these days so i knew that the way i was
going to make money was speaking which
is my passion anyway
and in order to get the kind of fees as
a speaker that i needed
i needed to have a book published by a
traditional publisher because if i went
the
grassroots scrappy like gain a social
media following
gain power that way and then
self-publish or whatever
it was going to take too long like i i
can't i didn't have the luxury
to do that and i was starting from zero
but i knew that
i really believed in my book idea and i
knew it was going to be a great book
so the book proposal is what you have to
write in order to get a book deal with
the publisher
you don't have to write one if you're
self-publishing and there's good reasons
to self-publish and there's reasons to
go with the traditional publisher so i
started with the traditional
and the book proposal took me many
months i mean i really
put my blood sweat and tears into it and
i once i was done that's when i started
looking for agents
and at this point so i was fired in
september now it's like
beginning of november and i'm i have no
contacts in book publishing
i don't know anyone so i just started
reaching out to everybody in my network
asking if they could help me by
introducing me to anyone they know that
has anything to do with books they wrote
a book
they know someone who wrote a book they
know someone who works in publishing you
read books
right they read books i was meeting with
a million people
and trying to figure out how to get an
agent because it's really hard just to
get an agent
right forget about getting a deal so i
end up
through someone i know i end up getting
an agent we send the
proposal out to like 20 publishing
houses 18 of them wrote back and said
we love the idea it's provocative we
love the voice
but to summarize
this isn't exactly what they said this
is the sentiment it's too risky
because the way business books work they
give
deals to people they know have a
following
right so that when the book comes out
the publisher doesn't have to spend
money marketing it
sure this is how business books work and
this is why in order to get published as
a business book you need to be an
academic or a researcher you need to be
like an adam grant or simon sinek
because then it's not risky but
i represented a huge risk because
who's going to buy you know business
book from somebody without credentials
and without
the academic or the title sure so
18 out of 20 loved it but i was too
risky
one we never heard back from and then
the one at harpercollins
leadership which was like a developing
entity within the bigger umbrella
loved it and you know i i against all
odds got the deal
amazing then i then i had to write the
book
um because oh you know i didn't even
address your question which is what is a
proposal so the proposal is really
you selling the book and in it
um now if you're justin timberlake you
don't have to write a proposal
like they write one for you basically
and say can you sign with us
but if you're not you need to
explain the book the concept what's what
it's about
and you have to sell it which is a very
different thing than just writing
like sending a slide deck to an investor
yes but it also has
a very detailed outline of each chapter
it has like two or three sample chapters
it has a market analysis so you have to
do all the work for
oh yeah i had a whole customer
segmentation
i i worked my and i had done a lot of
stuff like that at google
a little at facebook where i knew how to
sell something i knew how to sell a
value proposition i knew how to market
something so
i wrote that proposal like my life
depended on it and that that's what a
proposal is so
wow okay so talk to me a little bit
about lean out and then i'd love to
also hear about you know the different
speaking engagements and some of the
messages that you're that you're
bringing to the world now through your
journey so what what is lean out about
i'm guessing that it has something to do
with with something that cheryl wrote
but
uh but but please tell me so sheryl
sandberg of course she's the ceo of
facebook and she's the author of lean in
and if you're a woman my age you
probably read
lean in because this came out in 2013
and it was like a bombshell like women
and leader
you know it's really defined modern
feminism for the women of my generation
and my book is really a counter argument
because the the premise of lean in
really is that women are oppressed by
stereotypes and bias and that's why
you know there's so few female
executives in the corporate world and
all that kind of stuff and you know
gender bias all the the popular themes
of today
my book really um
is the counter argument which
essentially it's funny i haven't done an
interview on the book on a while so i'm
like what was my messaging
um so essentially um
what lean out is about is that it's
really has nothing to do with women it
has to do
with the system set up in the corporate
world which are basically these were
a corporate hierarchy um for power and
dominance it's a it's a zero-sum game
for power and dominance and it was
designed by the
you know titans of the industrial age
for wow
and so for example there's research that
shows
that compared to men women
so compared to women men prefer
competitive zero-sum work environments
and they perform better in them
whereas women prefer and perform better
in collaborative win-win
work environments and by its nature as a
triangle
the corporate world is a zero-sum game
and
that's number one number two is that
compared to men women have more life
goals and they're of greater variety
whereas men have fewer and they're more
focused on money and rank in their
career
and so what happens is with promotions
when you get escalating management
responsibility right
that usually pre-coded required you to
be in the office
for face time and that compromises the
balance and flexibility that women
really desire to reach a greater variety
of life goals
now there are no value judgments one's
not better than the other but we have to
take a look at this system
at work and why you know it is biased
towards
certain traits because you know what
really is happening is that the people
that make it to the top
make it because they have a certain
cocktail personality
traits um that lend themselves to a
zero-sum game for power
and dominance a lot of women don't
aspire to manage large teams that was an
issue with me
and that's the only way to get promoted
and it's seen as a lack of ambition when
when that couldn't be further from the
truth like
you can make an impact and have ambition
without
you know um managing large teams in fact
i felt like being a manager diminished
my impact because i'm super creative i
was doing a lot of story development and
training and i think that puts
a limit on the ceiling for people who
don't aspire toward escalating amounts
of power and authority so it's all about
that but
it's told through stories about my time
at google and facebook so i say that
because it's not sort of some dry
academic analysis of work
it's actually quite funny and it it
really
i wrote it i wrote it for two reasons
one
i always felt like there was something
wrong with me like i didn't fit in right
like a square peg in a round hole in the
corporate world and i thought that that
was a reflection of something was wrong
with me
and over 15 years i started to
understand things from a new perspective
that there was nothing
wrong with me and i wrote this book for
the
i wrote the book i needed to read when i
was starting out my career
it is a very honest assessment of what
that
world is all about and what it requires
to succeed
whereas i didn't know what game i was
playing when i started out
i i just didn't understand it and so my
book is really
here's the game you're playing and if
you love that go for it
if you don't nothing's wrong with you it
doesn't mean you don't have ambition
and it it's it's just the nature of the
game
can change the rules but you can also
change how you play it so it's all about
that and then i also wrote it i
didn't hear any voices in the public
conversation of women at work
that i could relate to or that identify
with so i wrote it
for other women to feel heard and
understood and i think that's what it's
really accomplished i get messages from
women all over the world thanking me
for putting their thoughts and feelings
into words that they couldn't
they didn't really know how to express
so that's the book
um there's one other thing i wanted to
what about the responses from the under
you from the other gender
i'm guessing that quite a few people
from your from your past have read the
book i
took interest in it and i'm guessing
that it's not just women that read it
how did because it does sound like
you're painting a picture here
that it may be controversial is not the
right word but it but it does
speculative it's very it is provocative
so how was the reception of that
so the reception about it being
provocative
you know everybody leading up just like
oh you're going to get tons of hate man
blah blah you know it's really divisive
but i think for anyone who reads it it's
not
it's common sense you know because
it's a perspective that they hadn't
thought about but when when it's
shared it makes so much sense and i
always say like
i never really understood why it would
be provocative because if shadow
sandberg and i
both have a goal of helping women and we
both have two different perspectives
on how to do that it shouldn't be
controversial
you know the women's voices shouldn't be
limited to one woman who dominates the
conversation and anyone who disagrees
has to be anti-woman it's it's really
counter
to an antithetical to like the course of
human progress
to be able to say just this one
perspective
means that you support women it's not
and i think that it does a lot of damage
to women um
so the reception has only been really
like
women reaching out from i i can't tell
you it's like they write me love letters
and i love it because
i clearly gave them a voice
and that's what i wanted to do the
second half of the book i think would be
really interesting to men and the men
that have read it
really appreciate it because at the end
of the day it's not even about men and
women it's about a certain
type of person that does well in that
world and both men and women
they do and they don't maybe a little
more women than men but there's like
a whole universe of men out there that
can relate to a lot of the things i did
a reddit ama
last year that's when i really reached
more men but i think
men assume that they're not gonna relate
because it's a female book but then if
they do read it they end up really um
under like relating to it sure no no
that's amazing so you know 20 minutes go
by so so fast it's it's unbelievable
if there is one message that that we i
can take away from this or a lot of my
friends whether they're
their guys or girls at stanford for
example would could take away from
either the book or your different
speaking engagements or your journey as
a whole
what would that message be well the
message of the book at its very core
is to it's again cliche but it's
to be who you are and own it and a lot
of that
is about defining success on your own
terms because
there are so many things we can get
caught up in even school
where success is defined for you and
people just go along with the script
so getting promoted at work that's like
the definition of success
but if you don't want certain things
that the system doles out as rewards
you need to take a step back and really
take a hard look at like
who you are what you want and then
let go of the noise around you and i
really had to do that on this journey
to be an entrepreneur it's tough
it's you know i'll say i'll close with
this because i know a lot of people this
is
really the topic that you talk about a
lot i
was in the corporate for 15 years i made
a great salary i had the prestige of
working at google and facebook and like
all these amazing experiences and
security and benefits
but there was something in me that felt
empty
and now that i'm on this opposite
journey it's
very rewarding but it's also very
difficult so the point i'm making is
each has its trade-offs
and you have to really recognize that
going in the one way i heard it put that
captures it beautifully is when you
leave the corporate world to start your
own thing you trade depression for
anxiety
and i think that's the best most concise
way to put it
it is not easy i mean i
miss that world for so many reasons i
would never trade
what i'm doing now for anything at the
same time
it's tough and you know but that's
life and i'd rather live doing this and
taking risks and
seeing you know how far i can go so
that's just me
but yeah i want an end on that note
marissa
thank you very very much this was a
wonderful i have to ask
the last question three words that you
would use to describe yourself
i would say creative
free-spirited and resilient
marissa thank you very much it sounds
like an incredible journey
uh difficult and joyous and optimistic
and and rewarding at the end and and
definitely i thank you for
for spreading this message at the end i
think you know
looking at the world that that i'm
growing up in it's it is sometimes cut
throughout and there's a lot of
competition sometimes i i'm very
fortunate to be in a community where i
feel there's a lot of
collaboration even more than there is
competition but but
at the end it's about finding your your
personal passion
and and reward and so thank you for
sharing that message and
stay safe and stay healthy thank you
thanks for having me
and we and we forgot to mention that you
also started a podcast in march i know
there are
times but just give me two sentences on
that i'll quickly say you can follow me
on instagram link to twitter marissa
beth or b-e-c-h is my middle name
and then i just started a podcast in
march called nice girls don't watch the
bachelor
and that's meant to be irreverent it's a
story i'll go i can go into it another
time
um but it's available on itunes and
google play and everywhere podcasts are
wonderful thank you very much stay safe
and stay healthy
thank you
you